---
published: true
title: "An Empirical Study on the Issue Reports with Questions Raised during the Issue Resolving Process"
layout: post
authors: ["Daniel Alencar da Costa", "Shane McIntosh", "Uir\u00e1 Kulesza", "Ahmed E. Hassan and Surafel Lemma Abebe"]
preprint: https://github.com/danielcalencar/danielcalencar.github.io/raw/master/papers/EMSE-2018-questions-raised.pdf 
venue: Empirical Software Engineering (EMSE) 
award: false
acmaward: false
category: [Journal Papers]
tags: [EMSE, 2018, Issue reports, Questions raised]
---   

### Abstract 

An issue report describes a bug or a feature request for a software system.
When resolving an issue report, developers may discuss with other developers
and/or the reporter to clarify and resolve the reported issue. During this
process, questions can be raised by developers in issue reports. Having
unnecessary questions raised may impair the efficiency to resolve the reported
issues, since developers may have to wait a considerable amount of time before
receiving the answers to their questions. In this paper, we perform an
empirical study on the questions raised in the issue resolution process to
understand the further delay caused by these questions. Our goal is to gain
insights on the factors that may trigger questions in issue reports. We build
prediction models to capture such issue reports when they are submitted. Our
results indicate that it is feasible to give developers an early warning as to
whether questions will be raised in an issue report at the issue report filling
time. We examine the raised questions in 154,493 issue reports of three
large-scale systems (i.e., Linux, Firefox and Eclipse). First, we explore the
topics of the raised questions. Then, we investigate four characteristics of
issue reports with raised questions: (i) resolving time, (ii) number of
developers, (iii) comments, and (iv) reassignments. Finally, we build a
prediction model to predict if questions are likely to be raised by a developer
in an issue report. We apply the random forest, logistic regression and Naïve
Bayes models to predict the possibility of raising questions in issue reports.
Our prediction models obtain an Area Under Curve (AUC) value of 0.78, 0.65, and
0.70 in the Linux, Firefox, and Eclipse systems, respectively. The most
important variables according to our prediction models are the number of Carbon
Copies (CC), the issue severity and priority, and the reputation of the issue
reporter.

### Bibtex 

{% highlight tex %}
@article{huang2018empirical,
  title={An empirical study on the issue reports with questions raised during the issue resolving process},
  author={Huang, Yonghui and da Costa, Daniel Alencar and Zhang, Feng and Zou, Ying},
  journal={Empirical Software Engineering},
  pages={1--33},
  year={2018},
  publisher={Springer}
}
{% endhighlight %}


