---
published: true
title: "The Impact of Refactoring Changes on the SZZ Algorithm: An Empirical Study"
layout: post
authors: ["Edmilson Campos Neto", "Daniel Alencar da Costa and Uir\u00e1 Kulesza"]
preprint: https://github.com/danielcalencar/danielcalencar.github.io/raw/master/papers/Edmilson_SANER18.pdf 
venue: 25th IEEE International Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution, and Reengineering (SANER) 
award: false
acmaward: false
category: [Conference Papers]
tags: [SANER, 2018, SZZ]
---   

### Abstract 

SZZ is a widely used algorithm in the software engineering community to
identify changes that are likely to introduce bugs (i.e., bug-introducing
changes). Despite its wide adoption, SZZ still has room for improvements. For
example, current SZZ implementations may still flag refactoring changes as
bug-introducing. Refactorings should be disregarded as bug-introducing because
they do not change the system behaviour. In this paper, we empirically
investigate how refactorings impact both the input (bug-fix changes) and the
output (bug-introducing changes) of the SZZ algorithm. We analyse 31,518 issues
of ten Apache projects with 20,298 bug-introducing changes. We use an existing
tool that automatically detects refactorings in code changes. We observe that
6.5% of lines that are flagged as bug-introducing changes by SZZ are in fact
refactoring changes. Regarding bug-fix changes, we observe that 19.9% of lines
that are removed during a fix are related to refactorings and, therefore, their
respective inducing changes are false positives. We then incorporate the
refactoring-detection tool in our Refactoring Aware SZZ Implementation
(RA-SZZ). Our results reveal that RA-SZZ reduces 20.8% of the lines that are
flagged as bug-introducing changes compared to the state-of-the-art SZZ
implementations. Finally, we perform a manual analysis to identify change
patterns that are not captured by the refactoring identification tool used in
our study. Our results reveal that 47.95% of the analyzed bug-introducing
changes contain additional change patterns that RA-SZZ should not flag as
bug-introducing.

### Bibtex 

{% highlight tex %}
@inproceedings{neto2018impact,
  title={The impact of refactoring changes on the szz algorithm: An empirical study},
  author={Neto, Edmilson Campos and da Costa, Daniel Alencar and Kulesza, Uir{\'a}},
  booktitle={2018 IEEE 25th International Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution and Reengineering (SANER)},
  pages={380--390},
  year={2018},
  organization={IEEE}
}
{% endhighlight %}


