---
published: true
title: "An Automatic Approach for Transforming IoT Applications to RESTful Services on the Cloud"
layout: post
authors: ["Yu Zhao", "Ying Zou", "Joanna Ng and Daniel Alencar da Costa"]
preprint: https://danielcalencar.github.io/papers/ICSOC2017_CameraReady.pdf 
venue: The 15th International Conference on Service-Oriented Computing 
award: false
acmaward: false
category: [Conference Papers]
tags: [ICSOC, 2017, Internet of Things, IOT, Web Services]
---   

### Abstract 

Abstract. Internet of Things (IoT) devices are prevalent in all aspects
of our lives, e.g., thermostat and smart lights. Nowadays, IoT devices
are controlled by various end-user applications. There is a lack of a standard
interface that allows the communication among various IoT devices.
In this context, the functionalities of IoT devices may be published as
IoT services. IoT services are RESTful services that connect to IoT devices.
The uniform interface of IoT services allows them to be integrated
with existing applications. We propose an approach that automatically
transforms functionalities of IoT devices to IoT services hosted on the
cloud. Our approach identifies the code methods from IoT applications
that have to be transformed and also extracts service specifications (e.g.,
input / output parameters) from these methods. Our case study result
shows that our approach obtains a precision and a recall above 70%.
The identified methods and service specifications are converted to IoT
services. Our approach generates IoT services with an accuracy of 96%.

### Bibtex 

{% highlight tex %}
@inproceedings{zhao2017automatic,
  title={An Automatic Approach for Transforming IoT Applications to RESTful Services on the Cloud},
  author={Zhao, Yu and Zou, Ying and Ng, Joanna and da Costa, Daniel Alencar},
  booktitle={International Conference on Service-Oriented Computing},
  pages={673--689},
  year={2017},
  organization={Springer}
}
{% endhighlight %}


