---
published: true
title: "Studying the impact of adopting continuous integration on the delivery time of pull requests"
layout: post
authors: ["Joao Helis Bernardo", "Daniel Alencar da Costa and Uir\u00e1 Kulesza"]
preprint: https://danielcalencar.github.io/papers/Joao_MSR18.pdf 
venue: 15th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR) 
award: false
acmaward: false
category: [Conference Papers]
tags: [MSR, 2018, Continuous Integration, Delivery Delay]
---   

### Abstract 

Continuous Integration (CI) is a software development practice that leads
developers to integrate their work more frequently. Software projects have
broadly adopted CI to ship new releases more frequently and to improve code
integration. The adoption of CI is motivated by the allure of delivering new
functionalities more quickly. However, there is little empirical evidence to
support such a claim. Through the analysis of 162,653 pull requests (PRs) of 87
GitHub projects that are implemented in 5 different programming languages, we
empirically investigate the impact of adopting CI on the time to deliver merged
PRs. Surprisingly, only 51.3% of the projects deliver merged PRs more quickly
after adopting CI.We also observe that the large increase of PR submissions
after CI is a key reason as to why projects deliver PRs more slowly after
adopting CI. To investigate the factors that are related to the
time-to-delivery of merged PRs, we train regression models that obtain sound
median R-squares of 0.64-0.67. Finally, a deeper analysis of our models
indicates that, before the adoption of CI, the integration-load of the
development team, i.e., the number of submitted PRs competing for being merged,
is the most impactful metric on the time to deliver merged PRs before CI. Our
models also reveal that PRs that are merged more recently in a release cycle
experience a slower delivery time.

### Bibtex 

{% highlight tex %}
@inproceedings{bernardo2018studying,
  title={Studying the impact of adopting continuous integration on the delivery time of pull requests},
  author={Bernardo, Jo{\~a}o Helis and da Costa, Daniel Alencar and Kulesza, Uir{\'a}},
  booktitle={2018 IEEE/ACM 15th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR)},
  pages={131--141},
  year={2018},
  organization={IEEE}
}
{% endhighlight %}


