---
published: true
title: "The Impact of Rapid Release Cycles on the Integration Delayof Fixed Issues"
layout: post
authors: ["Daniel Alencar da Costa", "Shane McIntosh", "Uir\u00e1 Kulesza", "Ahmed E. Hassan and Surafel Lemma Abebe"]
preprint: https://danielcalencar.github.io/papers/emse2017_dacosta_b.pdf
venue: Empirical Software Engineering Journal
award: false
acmaward: false
category: [Journal Papers]
tags: [EMSE, 2017, Integration Delay]
---   

### Abstract 

The release frequency of software projects has increased in recent years.
Adopters of so-called rapid releases--short release cycles, often on the order
of weeks, days, or even hours--claim that they can deliver fixed issues (i.e.,
implemented bug fixes and new features) to users more quickly. However, there
is little empirical evidence to support these claims. In fact, our prior work
shows that code integration phases may introduce delays for rapidly releasing
projects--98% of the fixed issues in the rapidly releasing Firefox project had
their integration delayed by at least one release. To better understand the
impact that rapid release cycles have on the integration delay of fixed issues,
we perform a comparative study of traditional and rapid release cycles. Our
comparative study has two parts: (i) a quantitative empirical analysis of
72,114 issue reports from the Firefox project, and a (ii) qualitative study
involving 37 participants, who are contributors of the Firefox, Eclipse, and
ArgoUML projects. Our study is divided into quantitative and qualitative
analyses. Quantitative analyses reveal that, surprisingly, fixed issues take a
median of 54% (57 days) longer to be integrated in rapid Firefox releases than
the traditional ones. To investigate the factors that are related to
integration delay in traditional and rapid release cycles, we train regression
models that model whether a fixed issue will have its integration delayed or
not. Our explanatory models achieve good discrimination (ROC areas of
0.80---0.84) and calibration scores (Brier scores of 0.05---0.16) for rapid and
traditional releases. Our explanatory models indicate that (i) traditional
releases prioritize the integration of backlog issues, while (ii) rapid
releases prioritize issues that were fixed in the current release cycle.
Complementary qualitative analyses reveal that participants' perception about
integration delay is tightly related to activities that involve decision
making, risk management, and team collaboration. Moreover, the allure of
shipping fixed issues faster is a main motivator for adopting rapid release
cycles among participants (although this motivation is not supported by our
quantitative analysis). Furthermore, to explain why traditional releases
deliver fixed issues more quickly, our participants point out the rush for
integration in traditional releases and the increased time that is invested on
polishing issues in rapid releases. Our results suggest that rapid release
cycles may not be a silver bullet for the rapid delivery of new content to
users. Instead, our results suggest that the benefits of rapid releases are
increased software stability and user feedback.

### Bibtex 

{% highlight tex %}
@article{costa2018impact,
  title={The impact of rapid release cycles on the integration delay of fixed issues},
  author={Costa, Daniel Alencar Da and Mcintosh, Shane and Treude, Christoph and Kulesza, Uir{\'a} and Hassan, Ahmed E},
  journal={Empirical Software Engineering},
  volume={23},
  number={2},
  pages={835--904},
  year={2018},
  publisher={Kluwer Academic Publishers}
}
{% highlight tex %}

