---
published: true
title: "An Empirical Study of the Long Duration of Continuous Integration Builds"
layout: post
authors: ["Taher Ahmed Ghaleb", "Daniel Alencar da Costa and Ying Zou"]
preprint: https://github.com/danielcalencar/danielcalencar.github.io/raw/master/papers/EMSE-2019-taher.pdf 
venue: Empirical Software Engineering (EMSE) 
award: false
acmaward: false
category: [Journal Papers]
tags: [EMSE, 2019, Continuous Integration, Build Duration]
---   

### Abstract 

Continuous Integration (CI) is a set of software development practices that
allow software development teams to generate software builds more quickly and
periodically (e.g., daily or even hourly). CI brings many advantages, such as
the early identification of errors when integrating code. When builds are
generated frequently, a long build duration may hold developers from performing
other important tasks. Recent research has shown that a considerable amount of
development time is invested on optimizing the generation of builds. However,
the reasons behind long build durations are still vague and need an in-depth
study. Our initial investigation shows that many projects have build durations
that far exceed the acceptable build duration (i.e., 10 minutes) as reported by
recent studies. In this paper, we study several characteristics of CI builds
that may be associated with the long duration of CI builds. We perform an
empirical study on 104,442 CI builds from 67 GitHub projects. We use
mixed-effects logistic models to model long build durations across projects.
Our results reveal that, in addition to common wisdom factors (e.g., project
size, team size, build configuration size, and test density), there are other
highly important factors to explain long build durations. We observe that
rerunning failed commands multiple times is most likely to be associated with
long build durations. We also find that builds may run faster if they are
configured (a) to cache content that does not change often or (b) to finish as
soon as all the required jobs finish. However, we observe that about 40% of the
studied projects do not use or misuse such configurations in their builds. In
addition, we observe that triggering builds on weekdays or at daytime is most
likely to have a direct relationship with long build durations. Our results
suggest that developers should use proper CI build configurations to maintain
successful builds and to avoid long build durations. Tool builders should
supply development teams with tools to identify cacheable spots of the project
in order to accelerate the generation of CI builds.

### Bibtex 

{% highlight tex %}
@article{ghaleb2019empirical,
  title={An empirical study of the long duration of continuous integration builds},
  author={Ghaleb, Taher Ahmed and da Costa, Daniel Alencar and Zou, Ying},
  journal={Empirical Software Engineering},
  pages={1--38},
  year={2019},
  publisher={Springer}
}
{% endhighlight %}


