---
published: true
title: "Predicting Co-Changes between Functionality Specifications and Source Code in Behavior Driven Development"
layout: post
authors: ["Aidan Yang", "Daniel Alencar da Costa and Ying Zou"]
preprint: https://danielcalencar.github.io/papers/Aidan-etal_MSR_2019_BDD.pdf
venue: 16th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR) 
award: false
acmaward: false
category: [Conference Papers]
tags: [MSR, 2019, Behavior Driven Development]
---   

### Abstract 

Behavior Driven Development (BDD) is an agile approach that uses .feature files
to describe the functionalities of a software system using natural language
constructs (English- like phrases). Because of the English-like structure of
.feature files, BDD specifications become an evolving documentation that helps
all (even non-technical) stakeholders to understand and contribute to a
software project. After specifying a .feature file, developers can use a BDD
tool (e.g., Cucumber) to automatically generate test cases and implement the
code of the specified functionality. However, maintaining traceability between
.feature files and source code requires human efforts. Therefore, .feature
files can be out-of-date, reducing the advantages of BDD. Furthermore, existing
research do not attempt to improve the traceability between .feature files and
source code files. In this paper, we study the co-changes between .feature
files and source code files to improve the traceability between .feature files
and source code files. Due to the English-like syntax of .feature files, we use
natural language processing to identify links between .feature files and source
code files, with an accuracy of 79%. We study the characteristics of BDD
co-changes and build random forest models to predict when a .feature files
should be modified before committing a code change.  The random forest model
obtains an AUC of 0.77. The model can assist developers in identifying when a
.feature files should be modified in code commits. Once the traceability is
up-to-date, BDD developers can write test code more efficiently and keep the
software documentation up-to-date.

### Bibtex 

{% highlight tex %}
@inproceedings{bernardo2018studying,
  title={Predicting Co-Changes between Functionality Specifications and Source Code in Behavior Driven Development},
  author={Aidan Yang, Daniel Alencar da Costa and Ying Zou},
  booktitle={16th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR)},
  pages={toAppear},
  year={2019},
  organization={IEEE}
}
{% endhighlight %}


